Testing
1, 2, 3. Testing 1, 2, 3.
This is an interview with Mr. Delaney. L.P.
Delaney. For a little over 30 years. When did you
first arrive in College Station? I came to College
Station on February the 14th, 1946. And you've
been here ever since? Yes, I worked for the city.
until July the 1st, 1975.
Mr. Delaney, can you tell us a little bit about your
family origins? Where is your family from? Where
are you originally from? Well, I came from Bonham,
Texas. I was born and reared in Bonham, in Fannin
County. It's up on the Red River, 90 miles
northeast of Dallas. And your parents, have they
been there? Well, my grandfather came to Texas
when he was two years old with his family from
Illinois. Actually, the Delaneys came over from
Ireland. I don't know when, but they came from New
York and drifted down to Virginia. And my clan came
across through Illinois to Texas.
Most of the Delaney's in Texas
originated from these two brothers that came to
Texas then. I have a cousin that runs the Sam Raven
Memorial up in Bonner, Sam Raven Library. And he
got all this. Family tree. Family tree and such
stuff. Well, that's pretty interesting. What was
your first job? The college station for the city?
Well, I guess it was utility, Superintendent. I
was in charge, or you might call it director of
public works then, because I looked after the
maintenance of the streets and lights, water,
sewer, and everything. It was a very small town, I
think 1,900 people. And we had about 450 customers
at that time. Well, I imagine now they have 7,000 or
8,000
customers. So it's grown.
What is your impression of the way that the city was
run then and the way that they run it now? What
changes have you seen take place? Well, the city at
that time you might say, a poor city.
They incorporated in 1938. And I came here in 46. So
what does that make you? Eight years old when I came
here. And we had our offices above the south side
maintenance pharmacy over the south side,
upstairs. And our warehouse was an old Quonset hut
building that sat up here where the 707 Texas
Avenue or something. So, I don't know, we just had
one old army truck and a pickup. And we did our work
out of this. We dug ditches for water lines by hand
and light poles by hand and so forth until we kind of
grew it and grew it. And the city was able to buy
better equipment. You said that you attended A&M
in what years? I came to A&M in the fall of 1929. I was
in school only one year. What was the campus like
then? What are some things you remember about it?
Well, in 29 and 30, The highway was over where they
call it the old highway now or old college road. It
came up College Avenue and turned into Triangle.
And all of this over in College Hills area, the new
highway just wasn't here. Even on the south side of
the campus, there was a barbed wire fence along
Jersey Street. And this was a cornfield in there at
that time. This was the first year that Kyle Field
was built. They opened up Kyle Field in 29. And they
did away, the Tunerville Trolley quit running in
28. The tracks were still laying off when I
discovered it. Well, do you think that... Were
they as spirited as they are now? Oh, I would think
more so. Of course, everything that came in at that
time came on the train almost. The highways were
all gravel. I'd say from Bonham down here, it's
about 300 miles. There wasn't 100 miles of asphalt
roads in 1929. It was gravel that got off the main
highway and dirt. Well,
even up to after I came here up to 1950, we had about
eight passing trains a day that came through
College Station. Do you remember any... You've
been here around City Hall or working for the city.
Has there ever been any
interesting elections or
political battles or anything of that sort? I
think most of the interesting elections have been
in the last ten years. 15 years before that.
Well, it's just kind of old settlers around. And
like our first mayor, not our first mayor either,
but Mr. Langford, who was the head of the
architectural department, was mayor when I came
here. And he was mayor for over 20 years. Well, just
wouldn't anybody run against him. And he did it as a
service to the town. And I'm sure they're still
doing that, but some of them possibly have a little
chip on their shoulder or want to change
something. Maybe it's the reason they're
running. You have more running today. And of
course, the town's larger, too. Well, when the
city was first established in 1938,
was it like it is now, I mean, in such a close
connection with Bryan, or was it sort of a separate
little entity by itself, would you think? Well, at
that time, we purchased part of our water from
Bryan and part from College, and we purchased all
of our electricity from Bryan. Now, the College
Hills area area east of Texas Avenue, Bryan, that
was even an REA system that serviced all the
houses. And the city bought, purchased this REA
system from Bryan in 1952, I believe it was. And
they had an agreement then with Bryan that any time
the city took in land or any area came into the city,
well, Brian would sell the REA system then to
Dollar Station. And all the relations with Brian,
all the time I was here, have been just first class,
real good relations. I think this energy
situation has caused a lot of the write-ups in the
papers now and a little friction.
But I don't think it'll ever be one city. But I'll
say it's one big community now. I think the
relations will stay there. OK.
Well, what do you do now for the city? Are you sort of
more or less just a? No, I'm retired. I don't do
anything for the city unless they ask me to. I did
come back and work five weeks at first for this year
when Mr. Ford had a light heart attack. They asked
me to come back. So you're more or less kind of on
call. Well, I like that. That's very nice.
You were here in 1946. That was post-World War II, I
was going to ask you. That was right after the war.
So do you know, like, well, since A&M is a military
school, would you have any idea? Were the troops,
do you know if troops were stationed here? Or how
the community would, well, I guess since it was
post-World War II. Well, right after the war, the
city, grew pretty real fast for a while because of
all the boys coming back to finish their education
and had to leave school and go and then to the
government help them we had trailer homes all over
the campus over there in fact they let them do that
and this is when they built a college College View,
as it's called, and Hensel, and all. They started
building for the students at that time. Before
that, of course, it was just the boys. Well, I'll
say up until after the war, there were very few
married students that came to A&M. But after that,
it kind of got to where They were a little older when
they came to school, and they were married. So I
guess it kind of changed the complexion of the
university a little bit. Do you remember any,
I
don't want to say disasters, but things like
floods or tornadoes that maybe affected the
community or affected the public work system
that you had to deal with? We have had several large
rains on this little wolf pantry that goes in back
of the Redmond Shopping Center that's caused some
damage to apartments that were built below
down there. They just built it too low, in my
opinion. Of course, too, they had a lot of pavement
put in, like when those apartments were built, I
don't believe Texas Avenue, the curb and gutter
was along by the campus. Rain falls on pavement,
it's not going in the ground, and it's just that
much more for the preach to carry on, and it comes
down past it. This is the reason we had this
problem. We did in 1950, the winter of 49 and 50, we
had an ice dam, what we call an ice dam
that drizzly rains froze and weighted the
electric lines down, and I guess we had 40 or 50
light poles that were on the ground. We had to work
all night, but about two or three days later, we got
cars back in. The REA, they had some places out in
the country off for two or three weeks. So many
light poles. College, it took them about a week to
get theirs all back. It ran all the way down. That
was
quite a bit of work. You know, when I came to school
in 1929, that winter, we had six inches of snow on
the campus. There was 24 inches at Waco. If we had to
go to Bonham, you had to go to Waco and back
up to Dallas. There wasn't any cutting across on
the 29th. Goodness. We'd go home six days in that
snow. Oh, dear.
Oh, does your family, like, do you have children?
Yes, I had two children, a boy and a girl. And they
were brought up here? Yes. We felt like when we
moved to College Station that this was the perfect
place to have your children. And, well, of course,
we both liked that place before we ever came,
and...
Shortly after we were here, we just took them one
night and decided this was our home. We were going
to stay here and make this our home. They were, one
was three years old and one four and a half, I
believe, when we moved here. Where's your wife
from? She's from Fort Outon. She was born and
raised in Fort Outon. She taught school. in the
second grade for 30 years in college. Oh, really?
But she's retired now also? Yes, she's retired.
Well, I'll tell you, and this is no joke, but you
don't look old enough to be retired to me. I don't
know how old you are, but my cousin was telling me
that your wife was, I think she said your wife was
her teacher. And she was a real nice lady and a real
good teacher, and she's been teaching for a long
time. So y'all have been a pretty... important
part of the community in one way or the other, it
seems like. Well, we think the community was real
good to us. We hope we helped some, but really it's
been a pleasure living here all this time. Well, I
think that's about all, unless you have something
else you'd like to tell me. I'll be interested in
anything that you'd like to talk about or say. I
notice your middle name is Pierce. Where did this
come from? Well, you might say back in the olden
days, most people named their children after
their mother's parents or their father's
parents. And the Pierce, my grandmother on my
father's side, was a Pierce.
They lived in Fannin County, too, of course. This
is where I got my middle name. I have an older
brother whose middle name is Seals. And that's our
grandmother. My mother's name was Seals before
she died. And the Louis, does that have any
origins? Yes. My older sister was studying. about
Louis XIV, so my mother said when I was born, and she
wanted to name me after Louis XIV. Okay, well. Mr.
Delaney, you were telling me about a little story
about Richard Carter and the cemetery. Could you
repeat that just a little bit again for me, please?
Well, Richard Carter's home was...
out near the east bypass. And just northeast of his
home, they had a little cemetery, a family private
cemetery, as most of the old settlers had. I
believe the last burial in that cemetery, which
had about nine small tombstones, was in 1875. The
reason I'm found this cemetery and knew about it,
Mr. Langford wanted me to go with him one day in the
late 40s to help locate it and look at it as a
possible site for a cemetery for the City College
Station. Mr. Langford was the mayor? Mr. Langford
was the mayor of College Station at that time. By
the way, they didn't use this location. They used
the Methodist Cemetery out on Texas Avenue about a
mile toward Houston on the right. But this was a
little cemetery. It had a steel picket fence
around it about four feet high, and it was about 25
feet square, a little gate. Well, when they built
the East Bypass,
the state highway men who were trying to locate it,
came by the city hall and asked me if I would go out
and show them where the Richard Carter Cemetery
was so they'd be sure and miss it with the east
bypass.
We went out there and searched and searched, and
finally I found where the cemetery was. It's just
the cemetery disappeared. I take it someone stole
the fence and took the stones for stepping stones
or something. I don't know. And I came in and
reported it to our chief of police and called the
Texas Ranger and told him somebody had stolen
Richard Carter's cemetery. This sounds kind of
crazy, but that's exactly what happened. I
haven't heard any more about it since.
You also mentioned something about...
an epidemic that broke out in the When the railroad
tracks ended at Milliken and Milliken was a town of
about 30,000 According to their old stories
Sanger Harris was at Milliken until they tied the
railroad tracks together to Dallas and then they
moved to Dallas Well My wife's grandfather said
that they left Milliken when he was nine years old
because it was they had a yellow fever epidemic
there and people just left and shortly after that
well of course they continued the railroad on to
Dallas and Milliken just is about I would say 200
people now. Just never has grown back to its
original size. That's right. My wife's folks
moved to Reagan, Texas. I see. I
guess that's the last of that story. I guess so.
Thank you.